# prophet-challenge
#### Danielle Dejean 
AI Bootcamp - Module Challenge #8,
11 August 2024
## Overview
This code analyzes Mercado Libre's ecommerce search trend and closing stock price data. It checks for patters and seasonality, reactions to world events, and then forecasts future results. 

## Functionality Implemented
* Google Collab, Jupyter Notebook
* Installs and library imports: prophet, pandas, prophet.plot, datetime, numpy, matplotlib.pyplot
* Functions: pd.read_csv, dropna, info, dayofweek, grouby, mean, plot, sum, agg, display, median, hour, index, isocalendar, day, concat, DateOffset, ewm, pct_change, corr, reset_index, rename, Prophet, fit, make_future_dataframe, predict, set_index, plt.show, and plot_components.
* Other code: slicing a dataframe by datetime, mapping day numbers generated by isocalendar to day names, generating datetime data with a shift of one hour, and correlation tables.

## Set Up
* The files wihtin the retrieve_movie_data repo were updated using Python version 3.10.14, in Google Collab and Jupyter Notebook. To run it, please download the most recent version of [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/), as well as a code editor that runs Python ([Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/?section=mac), etc.). To run Google Collab, create and link your Google account, then open Google Drive - select "new >> more >> Google Colaboratory". 
* To get the starter file into Google Collab, select "File >> Upload Notebook", then browse and select forecasting_net_prophet.ipynb starter file. 
* Copy the file link from GitHub (Click the Code dropdown button and copy the HTTPS URL to clipboard)
* Clone the file from GitHub into the desired folder on your computer (type: "git clone <link to file>" and press enter)
## Run Instructions:
In Terminal (Mac) or GitBash (Windows):
* Ensure that you're running the correct version of Python (see Set Up above)
* Ensure that you're in the directory containing the file before running
* In Google Collab, open "retrieve_movie_data.ipynb" and click "Run All" from the runtime menu
* The program will produce several plots 
## References
* The forecasting_net_prophet.ipynb starter file was downloaded from the AI-PT-WEST-MAY-052824_MTTH Module 8 Challenge files and edited to analyze the data.


